<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN" >
<chapter id="Appendix">
	<title>Appendices</title>
	<sect1>
		<title>Installing &deepskylog;</title>
	</sect1>
	We tried to make the installation of &deepskylog; as easy as possible to make it possible for non system
	administrators to install &deepskylog;.
	<para>Before installing &deepskylog;, make sure you have the following software installed on your server.
	If you don't have the needed software, ask your system administrator to install the software or search the 
	internet for the needed information on how to install the software.
	<itemizedlist><listitem>php : At least version 4.3</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>Apache : At least version 2.0</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>mysql : At least version 3.2</listitem></itemizedlist>
	</para>
	<para>
	When the needed software is installed on your web server, download &deepskylog; ( <ulink url="http://www.deepskylog.org/download.php">http://www.deepskylog.org/download.php</ulink> ).
	</para>
	<pre>
	Untar the tarball to the directory where deepskylog should be installed.
    	tar zxvf deepskylog-2.0.tar.gz

- Make a database in mysql where you want to store the data

  - If you don't have the permission to add a new database by yourself, 
     your system administrator should add the database for you and 
     give you the rights to use and adapt it.

     mysql -p -u root
      create database [db_name];
      use mysql;
      grant all on [db_name] to [user]@[host];
      grant all on [db_name].* to [user]@[host];
      grant all on [db_name] to [user]@localhost;
      grant all on [db_name].* to [user]@localhost;
      quit
      
  - If you have the permission to add a new database, the command to execute is:

     mysql -p
      create database [db_name];
      quit

  - Perform the following steps :

     mysql -p [db_name]  sql/tables.sql

  - Adapt the file lib/setup/databaseInfo.php with the name of the database, 
     the loginname and password and the hostname. This is the file where other 
     settings can be adapted.

  - Make a new directory 'observer_pics' in the main directory and assign the 
    correct rights, so the webserver can write into it:

    mkdir observer_pics
    chown webaccount observer_pics
    chmod 700 observer_pics 

  - Make a new directory 'drawings' in the main directory and assign the 
    correct rights, so the webserver can write into it:

    mkdir drawings 
    chown webaccount drawings
    chmod 700 drawings

  - Log in as soon as possible as administrator (admin - deepskylog),
     change the password and add an emailaddress! 

  - Enjoy deepskylog!
  


Adding extra languages

  - Make a directory with the name of the new language in lib/setup/language

  - Make a lang_main.php file in this directory.

  - Send the new lang_main.php file to translation@deepskylog.org so that the 
     new language will be available in a next release of deepskylog.

Adding extra location databases

1) For all countries but the USA

  - Download the location database for the chosen country from 
	ftp://ftp.nga.mil/pub/gns_data

  - Put the file in lib/setup/locations/

  - Unzip the file 

  - Execute 
     adaptLocationDatabase.pl countryname.txt
    A new file (countryname.ast) will be created. You can now delete the old 
    country.txt file.

2) For the USA
  You should never try to add the same file more than once. Doing so will make
  the location database for the USA corrupt!

  - Download the database (state.zip) for the chosen state from the 'Columnar 
     Format Files' on 
	http://geonames.usgs.gov/stategaz/index.html

  - Put the file in lib/setup/locations/

  - Unzip the file

  - Execute 
     adaptUSADatabase.pl STATE.TXT
    The locations will be added to usa.ast. You can now delete the old 
    STATE.TXT file.

Adding objects to the Object database

  - It is possible to import the Sac list into the database. You can download
     the Sac list from http://www.saguaroastro.org/content/db/sac72.zip

  - Unzip the file in the lib-directory. 

  - Execute 
      php Sac.php
    After a while (ca 20 seconds), the Sac list is inserted in the database.
 
Intregrate DeepskyLog in our existing website

  - DeepskyLog can be integrated in your existing website. You can adapt the 
     files menu/headmenu.php and styles/style.css to suit your needs better.

</pre>
		<sect1><title>Help to develop &deepskylog;</title></sect1>
	</chapter>

