<chapter id="LoggedIn">
	<title>&deepskylog; with an account</title>
	<sect1><title>Request an account</title>
        <para>With a deepskylog account you can benefit more from all the features covered in deepskylog. 
        With a deepskylog account you can keep track of your own observations and compare them with other observers.</para>
        <para>Registration consists of two consecutive steps: registration of your username and approval of your username</para> 
        <para>To register, click on the 
        register link in the login section. You will get a form where you need to provide some identification info:
        </para>
        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Username</emphasis>: this is a sort of nickname to login to deepskylog 
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Email address</emphasis>: this will be used to notify you when your account is approved
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>First name</emphasis>: your first name
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Name</emphasis>: your name
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Password</emphasis>: choose a password to enter deepskylog. Don't choose anything obvious and please 
        don't use the same password as the one you need for your email account!
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Confirm password</emphasis>: type the above password again to check for typing errors
        </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>  
        <para>After you have provided the above information, click the register button.</para>     
        <para>
        If everything went well, you will be notified by email that your account has been registered. 
        You <emphasis>cannot</emphasis> 
        login with this account yet though! Your account needs to be manually approved by the administrators of the deepskylog 
        website to exclude abuses.</para>
        <para>
        When your account is approved, you will be notified by email again and you can access the deepskylog 
        website by entering your chosen username and password in the login fields</para>
        </para>
        </sect1>
	<sect1><title>First steps after logging in</title>
        <para>After your account has been approved, you can login with your new username and password. Deepskylog makes use of cookies, 
        your username and password will be saved and you are automatically logged in when you return to the deepskylog website.</para>
        <para>To benefit the most from 
        all the deepskylog features, we advise you that you enter some extra information in your account details first. To do this, 
        click on the <emphasis>account details</emphasis> link in the add/edit section.
        </para>
        <para>
        You will be provided with a webform with your account details:
        </para>
        <para>
        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Username</emphasis>: your username
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Email address</emphasis>: your email address
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>First name</emphasis>: your first name
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Name</emphasis>: your name
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Password</emphasis>: your password
        </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        <note>Every time you want to change something in your account details, you have to enter your password and confirm it!
        Otherwise your changes will <emphasis>not</emphasis> be stored.</note>
        <note>You can change your old password by providing a new password
        in the password and confirm password fields</note>
        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Confirm password</emphasis>: confirm your password to check for typing errors
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>ICQ code</emphasis>: here you can enter your ICQ code for comet observations. This may be left empty.
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Default observing site</emphasis>: choose your default observing site from the dropdown box or enter a new 
        observing site by clicking on the link next to it. By entering a default observing site here, every new observation 
        will automatically be linked to your default observing site. As a benefit, entering new observations will be much faster. This 
        behaviour can be overridden for each observation though. 
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Default instrument</emphasis>: choose your default instrument from the dropdown box or enter a new instrument 
        by clicking on the link next to it. By entering a default instrument here, every new observation will automatically be 
        linked to your default instrument. As a benefit, entering new observations will be much faster. This behaviour can be 
        overridden for each observation though.
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Default atlas</emphasis>: choose your default atlas from the dropdown box. When you query objects or view the 
        details of an object, the page number of your default atlas will be shown. Deepskylog currently supports the following atlases: 
        Uranometria (1st and 2nd edition), Sky Atlas and Millenium Star Atlas.
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Picture</emphasis>: you can upload a (new) picture so everyone can see how you look like. 
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
        <emphasis>Default language</emphasis>: choose your default language from the dropdown box. The graphical user interface will 
        be changed to the selected language. 
        </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        </para> 
        </sect1>
	<sect1><title>Account details</title></sect1>
	<sect1><title>New observation</title>
	In this section, we do not try to give an overview of all the possibilities while entering a deepsky 
	observation, but we try to elaborate on a few real live examples a typical deepsky observer will encounter
	sooner or later. The examples we will give are :

	<itemizedlist>
        <listitem>Adding existing observations in deepskylog</listitem>
	<listitem>Adding a single observation of a deepsky object</listitem>
	<listitem>Adding all observations of one observing night</listitem>
        </itemizedlist>

	<sect2><title>Adding existing observations in deepskylog</title>
	<para>Most deepsky observers keep track of their observations somehow. Some observers just 
        have a book where they note down all descriptions and drawings, others use a computer application to 
	keep track of their observations. This section describes how to import all your observations from a 
	computer application (like excel, or any other application which can export to 'comma separated values'
	files (CSV-files)) into &deepskylog;.</para> <note>If you import your observations this way, please remember 
	that your drawings will never be imported in &deepskylog;. You will need to import all your drawings 
	one by one after the descriptions are imported.</note> 
	<para>Before importing your CSV file into deepskylog, you need to make sure that the following things are 
	done:
	<itemizedlist><listitem>You need of course a &deepskylog; account. If you do not have a &deepskylog; account
	yet, you should register on a &deepskylog; site and await approval from one of the administrators.
	</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>All the locations available in your CSV file should also be known in
	&deepskylog;. Normally, this will not be the case. You should make a list of all locations
	which are not available in &deepskylog;. You can see the list of all available locations in the 
	'Account details', under the item 'Default observing site'. All the unknown locations should 
	be added using the 'New location' item. There you can search into the database of locations (which 
	should always be your first step) or enter the coordinates of the location manually.</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>Not only the observations of your CSV file should be available in &deepskylog;,
	but also the instruments. You can see the list of all available instruments in the 'Account details',
	under the item 'New instrument'.</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The CSV file should start with the following line: 
	<para>Object;Observer;Date;UT;Location;Instrument;Seeing;LimMag;Description</para>
	</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The observations should be entered the following way :
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The name of the object, for example M 13. A space should be available between the 
	catalogue name (in this case M for Messier) and the number. You can browse a &deepskylog; site for more details
	on the names of the objects.</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>Your observing name as known on the &deepskylog; site (eg John Smith). 
	</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The date using the European format (dd-mm-yyyy).</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The time in UT. This field can be left blank!</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The location, written exactly as it is known on the &deepskylog; site. 
	</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The telescope name, written exactly as it is known on the &deepskylog; site.
	</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The seeing, a number ('Excellent' = 5, 'Good' = 4, 'Moderate' = 3, 'Poor' = 2 or 
	'Bad' = 1). This field is not mandatory!</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>Limiting magnitude, a number describing the limiting magnitude when you did 
	your observation (for example 6.4). 
	This field is also not mandatory.</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>The description of your observation. Do not use enters or ; in your
	description!</listitem></itemizedlist>
	</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>Your CSV file should look like this:
    <programlisting>Object;Observer;Date;UT;Location;Instrument;Seeing;LimMag;Description</whiteline>
NGC 2392;John Smith;21-01-2005;20:45;Aalst;Obsession 15";2;4.0;Nice planetary nebula with a very bright central star! 
M 35;John Smith;21-01-2005;20:53;Aalst;Obsession 15";2;4.0;About thirty members with several curved chains of stars.
...
    </programlisting>
	</listitem></itemizedlist>
	<itemizedlist><listitem>Now that you have your CSV file, you can insert the file into &deepskylog;. Select
	'New observation' from the menu, and select 'import observations from a CSV file'. In the form you see, you 
	have to enter the location of your file. After you click the 'Import!' button, your observations should be 
	inserted. If a problem occurs, &deepskylog; will complain and tell what the problem is.	</listitem></itemizedlist>
	</sect2>
	<sect2><title>Adding a single observation of a deepsky object</title></sect2>
<note>&deepskylog; automatically adds a link to the Messier, NGC and IC objects in your descriptions.</note>
	<sect2><title>Adding all observations of an observing night</title></sect2>
	</sect1>
	
	<sect1><title>New instrument</title></sect1>
	<sect1><title>New location</title></sect1> 
	<sect1><title>New object</title></sect1>
</chapter>

